In the last two videos, i showed you how to
create 2D and 3D shapes in JSCAD. These shapes
we can also colorize, but it's very important
to have in mind, as we export them later on,
for example in the STL format, we lose all the
color information. The colors are more to help
us during the development process, for example
to differentiate between different objects.
To colorize an object, we have the colorize
function. And the colorize function takes an array
of three numbers, from zero to one. Different from
p5.js 0 to 255. To get a red cube, we write one,
zero, zero. We could add a fourth number
to add a transparency. Also zero to one.
And then as a second parameter, after the array,
we provide the object that we want to colorize. In
our instance the cube object. And this is now very
different to p5.js. In p5.js we defined the color
and everything we drew afterwards, was colorized
in this color that we defined. Here every time we
use any kind of transformation function: colorize,
translate, rotate, a new object is created
and returned. For the colorize function, a new
object of the colorized object is created for us.
We can store this in another object. Let's call
it color object and return this color object.
In the beginning, this might be weird, that
there's always a new object being created,
but there's something really nice about
it. Because now you can use the same cube
object and use it in multiple transformations,
without any need of creating a new cube object.
So we save this and now we have a red cube.